enhance(query-planner): collapse per-implementor inline fragments back to the supertype they came from (#970)
graphql-hive/router: .changeset/per-subgraph-supertype-collapse.md

---
hive-router-query-planner: patch
node-addon: patch
hive-router-plan-executor: patch
hive-router: patch
---

# Collapse per-implementor inline fragments back to the supertype they came from

When the supergraph has a union of three notification types and a feed field that returns it:

```graphql
interface Notification {
  id: ID!
  title: String
  createdAt: String
}

type EmailNotification implements Notification {
  id: ID!
  title: String
  createdAt: String
  recipientAddress: String
}

type PushNotification implements Notification {
  id: ID!
  title: String
  createdAt: String
  deviceToken: String
}

type SmsNotification implements Notification {
  id: ID!
  title: String
  createdAt: String
  phoneNumber: String
}

union NotificationUnion =
  | EmailNotification
  | PushNotification
  | SmsNotification

type Query {
  notificationFeed: [NotificationUnion!]!
}
```

And the client sends an interface-shaped query against the union:

```graphql
{
  notificationFeed {
    ... on Notification {
      id
      title
      createdAt
    }
  }
}
```

> Before, the planner sent this exploded shape to the subgraph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before, the planner expanded the interface selection into concrete object-type selections before sending it to the subgraph:
```
